and we've now gotten it and we're going to give
it away would you
like to talk about at geo so Skylar has set
up a giant server in Canada powered by hydropower that
has the entire four square open places database in it which is
why you need a big server and if you go to at
geo org we have a bunch of running services in the meantime
the lexicon that Nick helped birth has already kind of
made its way into a bunch of things and the pain point
in fact is looking up venues that actually exist and and editing
them so we're super stoked that you know one one cover
should have we've shipped some things and we have a lot
more geo to build may be helpful with the little permissions and
privacy around some of that geo stuff exactly all supported by the
community fund so yes if you want to build on that come
find Skylar or hit us up awesome and I will hand
it to Ted to talk a little bit about our next gr
antees thank you and I just want to start with like
what was the reason that we got involved with Indie Sky
and was sort of like common touch points with free our feeds
the thing that we really landed on was what are the things
that we could do to encourage building outside of blue sky other
companies because the way that we think about this is like if
there's a credible exit that needs to happen there needs to
be a credible community that you can exit to that is all
of you here and part of what we've been thinking about
for the past year is how do we help move these conversations
along where can we get to the questions that haven't been
asked yet and there have been amazing members of the community like
Bailey with PDS mover who gotten us past the point of
just talking about oh theoretically you can move between PDS is
to what is the experience of moving from PDS to PD
S actually look like what happens when you need to move a
whole lot of people at once it's not just technical it
is explaining what is a PDS what are the steps that
you need to take right and so these are the conversations we
want to be able to facilitate and also make sure that we
can get to that next level both between within this community and
with users so the grant funding and the fund grantees
that we are announcing today are black sky for better user documentation
particularly focusing on the search sorry not better user documentation there's
literally no user documentation yes yes of the app by blue sky
black sky so black sky is going to ship the first version
version can we get a mother heckin round of applause so
thank you once again for black sky for leading the way at
least we slipped you a small check this time around yeah and
we want to encourage people to build in in other spaces and
we think that um spaces like uh uh um standard site which
has emerged over the past year as a collaboration within the app
proto community is like vital and critical but one of the other
questions is how do these things interface with other communities and existing
communities of users and so Tyler's efforts with wire service really
started to bridge the gap into the wordpress community and start
to bring at least metadata initially into the app proto ecosystem so
that these things can be published connect with the standard site uh
uh lexicons and um uh begin that conversation of what
it looks like to move into these uh existing ecosystems thank you
Tyler yes thank you and we also think it's really important
to think about these next layers of as more users come into
the ecosystem how how are we cooperating with them how are
we uh bringing some sense of order or uh community within these
spaces and so we're um uh we're going to be
giving out two grants um one debuff to trezzy
who's built the game dev labeler and uh cartridge which
is a system for being able to uh ingest um uh
information from labelers and other sorts of systems and uh take
action on all lexicons in uh the app proto ecosystem
not just the blue sky lexicons um and uh sky
watch um uh from mountain herder um julia and in
order to uh work on the general threat intelligence problem right these
are if we're talking about community moderation what are the infrastructure
that we are going to have to be able to share signals
and be able to uh communicate um the things that we're
observing out uh in the world so that app views and label
ers can actually make better decisions about what's going on in
the atmosphere thank you trezzy and mountain herder so
these are relatively small grants 2500 usd each um we'll
put that up and announce it and also put links where you
can make those dollars grow with those four entities as well um
i know that patrick hi remote patrick has long talked
about please please please um you know give us a gith
ub sponsor like give us something like that we know it's
not a lot but people actually do want to vote uh with
their dollars and with their energy for for what you're doing
for the community and we really appreciate it um we did a
little founders and funders session yesterday broadly speaking about funding um
and uh dietrich participated in that he was one of the
first people said that that said yes i'll come along um
and i wanted to highlight these things uh burrito dot space
you can easily find it in the last couple of posts um
so like cheese and cultures uh the ecosystem is delicate uh there
's a lot a lot a lot of enthusiasm and huge talent
but there actually isn't magical investor monies the grant options
are thin many first-time founders many don't want investor investment
uh a few other options the macro environment is a touch scary
so this is a collective challenge we can just do things uh
maybe we can just pay for things if we pull it up
across enough things gander as an example um did a crowd
equity raise um and had 2000 individual canadians uh invest
because there was a demand of saying we need this sort of
thing ourselves so that's an example if you're using something
for free it can go away fig this morning said aster
ix it turns out this stuff is getting cheaper and cheaper to
run but we need that diversity we need more things running the
operator may be struggling or maybe just doing it because they still
think it's an obligation that they they started um to those
of you running infra please add a payment tier uh make co-
ops make them locally run community in front together and
learn from the past magical thinking does not make a healthy atmosphere
so thank you dietrich for letting me me read two ske
ets um
and with that we're actually going to welcome tony schne
ider thank you hi everyone i
'm tony i'm the new ceo of blue sky
and as someone who grew up in switzerland i appreciate all
the cheese talk that just happened um i am three weeks into
my new job i spent the first two weeks getting onboarded
into blue sky and the last couple of days getting onboarded
into the atmosphere i feel like and the first thing i want
to say is thank you to all of you everybody i've
met in person has been extremely nice and welcoming and i'm
getting a sense of this community um you're all working on
something really important but you're doing it with a lot of
collaboration and grace and a sense of humor and i really appreciate
it um i usually don't like being up on stage but
uh boris and ted convinced me that it would be good
idea to introduce myself to you because i did join the blue
sky leadership team and blue sky is the biggest company in the
atmosphere we hope that changes in the future we would love to
be a small slice in a giant pie that we all make
together but for now we are biggest and you should know who
the people are behind this company um the most important thing i
want to tell you is that i love at proto in the
atmosphere we're not changing anything we're going to continue to
support this community and the things you're building with all the
levers that are available to us so me arriving and taking over
from jay doesn't mean any change in that we're
completely behind what you building we don't want to just build
a company we want to help a whole ecosystem emerge and the
other thing i wanted to do is just tell you a little
bit about myself like i mentioned i actually was born and raised
in switzerland i moved to california to study computer
science go to college there and then i stayed i joined a
startup i got married i started a family the startup was bought
by another startup and then a bunch of us started a company
together that was my first time as a ceo and then
that led to probably the most formative job i've had
in my career so far and it's when i was the
founding ceo of a company called automatic which was the company
behind wordpress.
com and i remember early wordpress days this is now 20
years ago um a room not dissimilar to this a
few hundred people in that case it was bloggers and open
source developers and there was something special in the air we really
felt like the case of wordpress it was decentralized publishing um
that we thought could be something really big and i remember at
the time people told me especially investors that you have a choice
to make you can either build an open source community or you
can build a company but you can't do both and we
thought actually we want to do both and we did one better
wordpress continued to thrive to this day 20 years later it
's huge it now incredibly powers over 40 percent of all the
websites on the internet thriving as an open source community and we
didn't just build one company we helped build a whole ecosystem
that is now also very big there's over 10 billion dollars
a year that flows through the wordpress ecosystem and automatic is
less than 10 percent of that the rest is thousands tens of
thousands of other businesses people making a living on that platform so
i've seen that happen i know it's possible to build
not just a company on an open ecosystem but lots of companies
and um lots of people being able to make a living and
my hope is that i can bring some of that experience to
this community because i believe that the people are building the atmosphere
people who are um coming up with the ideas and the systems
and the products and are building the community should be able to
do so and actually make a living at it and i think
that's possible thank you thank you t
ony simple easy after party adjun
ction uh eva has gone ahead uh uh and uh they
've organized some local djs for us uh at 7 30
p.
m uh dj cassis back to back with earthware
uh links uh are posted on the account 8 30 to 9
30 p.
m dj trance rights um and then uh a friend
of mine uh ian uh who works out of z space
those of you who managed to come by uh i think we
're going to get him to do some of his uh video
djing as well um tomorrow doors at 8 30 a.
m so make your choices regarding after party night uh you will
be downtown um uh it's going to be a little bit
full we're going to have food there you could go out
and eat and join us midway through there'll be some
finger food you could come for a while etc all of these
options are open for you um we keep getting amazing weather and
i hope i haven't jinxed us this is the
end of your day one please join us at 9 00 a.
m npmx crew are going to be kicking us off
so happy to have them joining us thank you this is
the end of your day and see you in about an hour
and a half